•	Green coded issues represent those matters which we consider are either favourable to CLIENT, or for which there are likely adequate protections in place.
 
•	Yellow coded issues represent those matters which we consider are of medium risk to CLIENT in the circumstances.
 
•	Red coded issues represent those matters which we consider are of medium-to-high risk in the circumstances.
 
 
In all matters which involve risk to CLIENT, CLIENT will need to consider if they are material enough to require any change to the clause or to risk management arrangements that CLIENT have in place.
 
 
Anthropic Terms – Key Issues List
 
A.	Commercial Terms of Service
 
1.	Training on CLIENT data (Section B): [short answer – one line answer] 
Additional Guidance: The Terms of Service expressly provide that “Anthropic may not train models on Customer Content from Services”.  For reference, “Customer Content” is defined to refer to “inputs” which are submissions to the Services by Customers or Users and “outputs” which are responses generated by the Services to inputs.  Therefore, Anthropic is not permitted to train its underlying models on CLIENT inputs (i.e. CLIENT user submissions to Anthropic’s services, and the search data / initial pre-ranked results) nor on CLIENT outputs (i.e. the ranked search results and any CLIENT content comprising those results).
2.	“Ownership” of CLIENT data (Section B): 
Additional Guidance: Further to the above, Anthropic is required to assign the rights in any “outputs” of the Services to the CLIENT.  However, this assignment is subject to CLIENT’s compliance with the Terms of Service and there is no qualifier on the materiality of the compliance or the nature of the breach which might entitle Anthropic to refuse to assign such rights in the outputs. In any case, we think the relevant risk to CLIENT is low on the basis that it would be difficult for Anthropic to refuse to assign rights in the outputs if the alleged non-compliance related to a minor breach of the terms or related to a breach which had no effect on Anthropic’s ability to assign such rights in the outputs.
 
3.	Audit (Section D.2): 
Additional Guidance: CLIENT is required to “cooperate with reasonable requests for information” from Anthropic to support CLIENT’s compliance with the Usage Policy, including to verify CLIENT’s identity and use of Anthropic’s services. There is no qualification on the kind of information that may be requested, or restrictions on the frequency at which this right to request information can be exercised. 

4.	Termination for convenience (Section I.2.a): There are broad termination for convenience rights which entitle Anthropic to terminate the agreement at any time on 30 days’ notice.  Query if this presents a material risk to CLIENT given the nature of the proposed use case.
5.	Suspension rights (Section I.3): There are very broad and largely unqualified suspension rights under the Terms of Service which may affect the continuity of the service.  For reference, Anthropic may suspend CLIENT’s access to the Services if:
 
a.	Anthropic reasonably believes or determines that:
(i)              there is a risk to or attack on any of the Services;
(ii)             CLIENT or any of its users are using the Services in violation of applicable laws, Anthropic’s policies (including the Usage Policy) or the use restrictions under Section D.4; or
(iii)            Anthropic’s provision of the Services to CLIENT is prohibited under applicable law or would result in a material increase in the cost of providing the Services, or
 
b.	any vendor suspends or terminates Anthropic’s use of third-party services or products required to enable CLIENT to access the Services (a service suspension).
 
While Anthropic is required to provide written notice to CLIENT of any service suspension and to resume provision of access as soon as reasonably possible (where curable), Anthropic carves out its liability for any damage or loss or any other consequences CLIENT may incur as a result of a service suspension.  The Terms of Service are silent on Anthropic’s liability or obligations with respect to the other suspension events listed under point 5(a). If amendments to the Terms can be agreed, we suggest attempting to limit the scope of these suspension rights.
 
6.	CLIENT Indemnity (Section K.2): CLIENT is required to defend and indemnify Anthropic in relation to any court judgment granted (or which an arbitrator awards) to a third party against Anthropic to the extent the claim relates to: (a) CLIENT’s inputs or other data provided by CLIENT to Anthropic; or (b) use of the Services in violation of the Usage Policy, Service Specific Terms or use restrictions under Section D.4 of the Terms of Service.  However, we think this indemnity is reasonable balanced on the basis that:
 
•	the indemnity only relates to and is capped at the amount granted under a court judgment / arbitration award, and it would be unlikely that Anthropic would pursue such formal proceedings against CLIENT given the nature of the engagement;
•	neither the Service Specific Terms, nor the limited use restrictions under Section D.4, give rise to issues for which we’d expect Anthropic to make a claim (e.g. the use restrictions are limited to where CLIENT builds a competing product to the Services, resells the Services, reverse engineers the Services or supports a third party in the same); and
•	there is a mutual indemnity granted by Anthropic to CLIENT covering violation of third-party IP rights when CLIENT uses the Services (noting Anthropic’s indemnity obligations are subject to the same limitation in dot-point 1 above and other broad exclusions, including where CLIENT makes modifications to the Services or outputs, including by combining it with technology or content not provided by Anthropic (e.g. CLIENT’s own search tooling)).
 
Separately, we have not reviewed the terms of the Usage Policy (noting this is outside the scope of work). We recommend CLIENT conduct a high-level review of this policy to ensure it is able to comply with and is comfortable with the terms.
 
7.	Warranties (Sections L.1): CLIENT is required to represent and warrant that it has all rights and permissions required to submit the relevant inputs (e.g. search results and content relating to the searches) into the Services. There is no cap on CLIENT’s liability for breach of this warranty, except for the standard exclusions of consequential loss. We recommend CLIENT ensure it has all required rights to input the relevant data into the Anthropic AI model.  Separately, Section L sets out standard exclusions of Anthropic’s liability (e.g. that the services will be provided “as is” and in respect of other potential warranties that may be granted).  However, this provision will not exclude any statutory warranties granted to CLIENT under law.
8.	Other items: We highlight the following additional points to note:
 
•	Notification requirements (Section D.3): CLIENT is required to notify its users of Anthropic’s services that factual assertions in outputs should not be relied upon without independently checking their accuracy, as they may be false, incomplete, misleading or not reflective of recent events or information.  We think this obligation could be satisfied, in practice, by simply providing a general notice to CLIENT employees (e.g. by way of email, or on the employee portal) when the Claude.ai functionality is applied over the search tool that Claude.ai has been engaged to assist with ranking and selecting search results.
 
•	Publicity (Section G): Anthropic is permitted to use CLIENT’s name and logo to identify it as a customer of Anthropic’s service under Section G.  Furthermore, CLIENT is required to consider in good faith any request by Anthropic to provide a quote Anthropic may use publicly regarding its motivation for using Anthropic’s services, or to participate in a public co-marketing activity.  We understand that CLIENT is only undertaking a very limited implementation of AI services and may not want their engagement of Anthropic to be made publicly available. Therefore, CLIENT could explore whether this term can be deleted or waived.
 
•	Disputes to be resolved in California (Section J.2): For customers residing in Australia, all disputes (except for equitable relief) are to be determined by binding arbitration by a sole arbitrator in San Francisco, if the parties cannot informally resolve the matter under Section J.1.  Furthermore, any disputes that are not subject to arbitration are subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of federal or state courts located in California under Section M.7.b.  Notwithstanding this is a common position adopted by US tech companies, this position may be inconvenient for CLIENT if there is a dispute that cannot be resolved by negotiation. 
•	Sole remedy (Section K.5): The indemnities granted under Section K is “each party’s sole and exclusive remedy” under the Terms of Service for any third-party claims. This is a common position, but one which we usually suggest contesting / striking from the customer perspective assuming the terms can be amended.
 
B.	Data Processing Addendum
 
The Data Processing Addendum (DPA) which is incorporated by reference into the Terms of Service is quite well balanced and customer friendly, notwithstanding it is GDPR focused and refers to terms under that regime (e.g. the SCCs).  For example, the DPA includes one-way audit rights enabling CLIENT to verify Anthropic’s compliance with the DPA and its security controls and the DPA also sets out clear restrictions around the manner in which Anthropic is entitled to use its customer data (e.g. only for the purposes of providing or maintaining the services and in compliance with CLIENT’s documented instructions).
 
However, we call out the following two points:
 
9.	Retention of CLIENT data (Section H.1.b): Anthropic is required to delete all copies of CLIENT data within 30 days of termination or expiry of the agreement with CLIENT, except as required by law, to resolve a dispute between the parties, or if retention of CLIENT data is necessary to combat harmful use of Anthropic’s services.  There could potentially be a risk that Anthropic may retain CLIENT data to “combat harmful use” of Anthropic’s services, as this purpose could be interpreted quite broadly by Anthropic given that the wording of the clause is not limited to “harmful use” by CLIENT.  However, we regard that the risk of Anthropic retaining CLIENT’s data for this purpose to be low given the nature of the CLIENT data and the relevant use-case (i.e. search results from CLIENT’s internal systems) which is unlikely to be helpful to Anthropic in combatting harmful use of its services. In any event, we suggest CLIENT take steps to confirm that Anthropic has deleted the CLIENT data after the expiry or termination of the agreement.
 
10.	Cross border disclosures of data (Section C.1): There is a risk that Anthropic may disclose CLIENT data to its overseas sub-processors, including to those located in the United States, when providing its services to the CLIENT – see the sub-processor list set out in Schedule 4.  However, we think that the terms of the DPA set out adequate protections for use disclosures in a manner that would enable CLIENT to meet its own obligations under the Privacy and Data Protection Act in relation to the disclosure of personal information outside of Victoria.  For example, Anthropic is required to “comply with the data security obligations of Applicable Data Protection Laws” (see Section E) and Anthropic is required to enter into a contractual agreement with each of its sub-processors which imposes contractual obligations that are substantially as protective as Anthropic’s obligations under the DPA (see Section C.2).  Anthropic is also liable for the acts and omissions of its sub-processors (see Section C.2).
 
C.	Other issues
 
There are a number of additional points to highlight:
 
•	On the Service Specific Terms, we have not identified any material contractual risks in the context of Anthropic’s proposed use-case. However, we suggest that CLIENT confirm which of the terms will be applicable based on the specific Anthropic products it will be using.  There are certain terms which, if applicable, could impact CLIENT from a data and liability perspective – for example:
 
o	There are broad carve-outs of Anthropic’s liability for certain services (e.g. Beta Services) – however, we assume that CLIENT will not be using any beta services and therefore these carve-outs will not be relevant. 
 
o	Some arrangements governed under these terms such as the Development Partner Program may involve broad training and data opt-in arrangements (see Section E). However, we assume that CLIENT does not intend to participate in the Development Partner Program.
•	For some of the issues set out above (e.g. publicity, suspension, sole remedy provisions), CLIENT may wish to explore with Anthropic whether there is any scope to negotiate variations to the standard terms of service.  However, we assume that there is generally limited scope to negotiate these standard terms, but it could be worthwhile requesting changes in any event.
 
•	There may be other terms that may apply to Anthropic’s services, such as Anthropic’s privacy policy and usage policy which are incorporated by way of reference into the Anthropic Terms. Please let us know if you’d like us to assist with reviewing these terms.

